pip install virtualenvwrapper-win (to install virtualenvironment).
pip install django (to install django).
mkvirtualenv and projct name (to create virtual env).
why we create virtual env ?
A virtual environment is a tool that helps to keep dependencies required by different
 projects separate by creating isolated python virtual environments for them. 
This is one of the most important tools that most of the Python developers use.

Imagine a scenario where you are working on two web based python projects and one of
them uses a Django 1.9 and the other uses Django 1.10 
and so on. In such situations virtual environment can be really useful
to maintain dependencies of both the projects.

workon and project name (to activate env)
pip freeze (to check what libraries are install with the installation of django).
django-admin startproject projectname (to create django project)
jo project create kiya ha us k ander aa k virtual create krna ha or phr activate krna hai or phr vs code ma projrct kholna ha.
python managee.py runserver (to start python project).
python manage.py createsuperuser (to create superadmin and set its credientiols).
python manage.py migrate (jb b hum app ya project mai changes krty hai is k chalany sy us changes ki ek file create hoti ha ).
python manage.py startapp app name (to create app in a project)

HOW DJANGO PROJECT WORKS?
1) first create django project.
then create app in the project and register the app in setting.py file.
2) then we give app path in project urls to access that app.
3) when we hit app url it goes in project url to check which app you want to access
then it check and goes to that app url file to check which path you want to access.
then it go to views file and acess that function.

project URLS FILE ----> CHECK WHICH APP TO ACCESS -----> GOTO APP URL FILE AND ACESS PATH -----> VIEWS FILE

WHAT IS MODAL.PY IN APP ?
A model is a class that represents table or collection in our DB,
and where every attribute of the class is a field of the table or collection.

WHAT IS VIEWS.PY ?
What is Django views py for?
Django views are Python functions that takes http requests and returns http response, 
like HTML documents. A web page that uses Django is full of views with different tasks and missions.


TEMPLATES

What are Django Templates?
Django templates combine a static HTML layout with Django Syntax, which is Python code. Both of these 
components aid in the dynamic generation of HTML pages, making your website more user-friendly. 
The basic goal of Django templates is to keep the data representation distinct from the data itself.

project k folder k bhr ek templates ka folder bana k us k ander html ka page bana do. or us ko
 setting.py mai templates k section mai folder ka name add kr do DIRS MAI.
us k bd app k views.py file mai us k liye function bana k us k ander render kara do index page ko.

STATICS FILE
static file add krny k liye kuch configration krni hoti hai setting.py or project k url.py mai.
setting.py mai ya code rakhna ha

STATIC_ROOT = "/staticfiles/"
STATIC_URL = 'static/'
STATICFILES_DIRS = (
    os.path.join(BASE_DIR, "static"),
)


project k urls.py mai ya code rakhna ha.

+static(settings.MEDIA_URL, document_root=settings.MEDIA_ROOT)

humy static file project k file k bhr bana na hai jaha templates ka folder ta.
us k andr ek txt ki file bana k templates k index. html k andr us ko access kr sakty hai
{%static load %} ya sb sy uper index.html mai addd kr k.


what is CSRF TOKEN

form banany k bd us k liye views mai ek function bany ga jis pai request ayegi post ki.
us k bd us function ka url banana hai app k urls mai.
ab uai function ka data humy data base mai save krna hai jis k liye hum models mai jaa k ek class banai gy jis mai us ka schema define kary gy.
jb b koi modal.py mai kaam hota hai humy us changes k bd makemigrations ki command chalani hoti hai or us k bd migrate tab ja k database mai 
wo class show hota hai jo hum ny banaya hota hai.
us k bd admin panel mai is schema ko show karany k liye app mai admin.py mai register krna hota ha us class ko jo hum ny banaya hota hai.
password install krny k liye humy pipp install passlib install krna parhta ha phr database mai password encrypt ho k ata hai.







